>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Student: So
seems likely that from here,
I might trigger events to trigger
other landers, can I do that?
>> Scott Moss: You bet, yeah.
>> Student: I'm like can I do that?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, can you.
>> Student: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, it sounds really cool
and you know what, there you can do it.
It's the problem is like, how to do it
effectively and efficiently because you
can go on, so I'm gonna get into a little
bit of how lambdas actually work and
the architecture underneath them.
The way they work is AWS spins
up a container, right and
that container gets recycled.
But inside that container, that's when
your lambda actually gets executed.
So what happens is let's say you haven't
executed a lambda in like a day.
You finally execute a lambda,
that creates a container and then that
spins up your line of functions, so
there's a cold start there, that's gonna
take some time, it's not warm yet.
So, that's gonna take some overheat and
then your lambda executes.
And if you heat it like within,
whatever, you know frequency that
ADS decides to recycle things,
nobody really knows the exact number,
it's between 5 and 20 minutes.
I've been looking, nobody knows
the number, then, it's warm, you're good.
So if you have a lambda that you hit
with a HTTP request that was cold,
there's a cold start there.
And then, let's say you've got
some database connections there,
this has got to connect
to those databases.
And then, inside that lambda,
you hit another lambda that
had a cold start there.
And then, it had database connections,
you could imagine, it could be really,
really slow.
And eventually it's compounded,
so, it sounds cool at first but
it really all depends on like what
you're doing in those lambdas.
If they are async versus synchronous,
like if I'm calling a lambda and
just forgetting about it cuz it's doing
something in the background, that's fine.
It's never gonna hurt you, but
if you're calling a lambda that's
calling another lambda and
it's waiting on that lambda and you're
client's waiting on the first lambda.
Your API's gonna be pretty slow and
not to mention right now,
API Gateway adds somewhere
between 200 milliseconds
of delay to every single request and
they're working on that, but that's a lot.
Just 200 milliseconds right off
the bat for using API Gateway.
So there's a lot of trade offs there,
so you can totally do it but,
probably shouldn't, at least not
without figuring out what you're doing.